---
layout: "post"
categories: "blog"
title: "Why Write?"
subtitle: An explanation of my entree into literary communication
date: 2015-07-05
image: /assets/img/why-write-thumbnail.jpeg
image_alt: stock image of a journal
image_caption: _Photo by_[ _Luis Llerena_](https://unsplash.com/negativespace)
---

I'm not someone who was known for literary skills. My worst grade in college
while seeking my engineering degree was in my "Into to Lit" class. This was
not due to a failure to comprehend Hamlet (which I was reading for the second
time), but because of grammatical mistakes and general poor essay writing.
Still, despite that history, I am choosing to start writing…publicly.

#### It's not you, it's me

While I can think of some grandiose reasons for starting a blog, my _top_
reason is more personal than public. I want to sort my thoughts out. In the
past I 've occasionally done personal journaling and by translating my
thoughts to sentences, I've come to understand myself better. Still, while it
was relaxing and informative, I often lacked the motivation to write for
myself. It didn't seem to matter enough.

In contrast, a public post can impact the way another person thinks. Writing
after all is a form of communication. It also requires a lot more thought and
effort. Let's be honest. While I try not to place my worth in other's
thoughts, I don't want to look stupid. Even more significantly, if I address
topics discussing religion (which basically spans all of life's subjects) I
want to honor my creator.

But I have no goals for how often I'll get thoughts into words. I'm not
promising a weekly update or even a monthly one. I'm planning on writing as
life comes so if you need more content to consume you'll have to look to the
rest of the internet. I think there's enough that you can find something to
interest you.

#### Sharing is Caring

When I look at the works online that I have found enlightening, many have been
blog posts that someone wrote in a personal manner about a topic that they
they cared about. The internet has clearly made the sharing of ideas much more
accessible. I don't consider myself a philosopher but if some idea or tip if
beneficial to someone then I am glad to share.

#### Communication breaks down barriers

There is a lot of power in communication. That's why oppressive governments
fight to [limit
communication](http://www.pcworld.com/article/218052/egypt_expands_communications_blackout.html).
But beyond political upheaval, a simple article can save you hours of work or
motivate you to try something new. Learning to understand someone/something
you didn't before can break down walls. I believe that everyone has something
to share and I want to promote the exchange of ideas. Communication wouldn't
be nearly as impactful if it was only one sided. That's why "[Web
2.0](http://www.pcworld.com/article/218052/egypt_expands_communications_blackout.html)"
was such a big deal. It brought a social, two-way communication to the
previously static webpage.

While social networks like Facebook have become the go-to place to share
ideas, I have found that comment threads have historically been poor places
for sharing full formed ideas. I avoid commenting on controversial material on
Facebook because it seems that people do not really understand an opposing
view simply through a series of comments. A blog does not solve all of these
communication problems, but they do encourage people to listen more before
responding. I'd like to be a part of some of the conversations that our nation
and generation is having in a meaningful way and I want to encourage others to
do the same.

### What will I write?

Good question. I haven't quite figured out what yet. I have a few ideas on the
drawing table but they are varied to say the least. As a warning, my posts
could span anything from technology, to social issues. One post may be a
editorial on the actions of people while the next could be a technical
explanation of how to use a piece of software. I recognize that there are very
few people who would be interested in articles from both ends of that spectrum
so I won't feel bad if you don't read. I don't want to waste you time so feel
free to pick and choose.

### Why Medium?

I realize that many of my friends and relatives may never have heard of
medium.com before but I have been drawn in by it's [unique
style](https://medium.com/@mwichary/ten-reasons-why-i-love-writing-on-medium-
894ba542f556). I don't deny my love of trying new technology or even reject
the "early adopter" label, but Medium's focus on quality design, ease of use,
and promoting communication sold me on the platform.

#### Personal posts

Medium allows anyone with an account to post under their own name. You don't
need to start your own individual blog site. If you'd like to do that you can
set up a "publication" but my aim it just to share what I find significant.
Medium is like a community of writers. Articles are suggested based off of
your preferences. If you like a writer, you can follow them, but articles
aren't locked in independent personal blogs.

#### Opportunities for feedback

Most uniquely, Medium has the ability for readers to comment on individual
lines of a post. Their philosophy is that comments make more sense in context
than at the bottom of the page. If you have a general
[response](https://medium.com/the-story/medium-responses-fd6086781625), you
can still write your own post at the bottom of the page. It's all up to you
and it's designed to be easy.

Let me be clear, I want to hear feedback. Even if you completely disagree with
me, I'd like to hear why. As I share my perspective with you, I want to learn
yours. I could be completely missing a whole viewpoint so please enligten me!
If your feedback is as simple as noting a simple spelling mistake (of which
there will be plenty), please write me a quick note. You can mark the note as
private so only I see it and I'll correct the issue as soon as I can. Or if
you want to shar with others, that would be fantastic. There is a spot for you
to explain why you are recommending an article on Medium so that others can
see what you appreciated.

#### Great design

As a professional web developer, I appreciate the design of the Medium
website. They make clear typeography a priority so posts are easy to read.
They've made an easy text editor that is minimal but powerful. They designed
their website with mobile viewing as a priority so posts can be read anywhere.
They are even doing their part to avoid forcing you to have to remember a new
[password](https://medium.com/the-story/signing-in-to-medium-by-email-
aacc21134fcd). Those types of design decisions make me feel that I'm making my
writing accessible to those that want to read it.

### Stay tuned

Now that I've gone through the lengths of explaining why I've chosen to write
I probably should get moving. I hope I can share something interesting with
the world but I also hope to understand myself better. Please give your
feedback and follow me to get notified when I make my next post.

<br>

---

_Originally published on <a rel="syndication" class="u-syndication" href="https://medium.com/@aciccarello/why-write-389c23a4a660">Medium</a>_
