---
title: 'Experiencing History in Florence'
subtitle: Walking through the birthplace of the Renaissance
date: 2022-10-11
tags: [travel, Italy]
permalink: /drafts/florence/
image: /assets/img/2022-italy-manarola-coast.jpg
image_alt: 
image_caption:
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
eleventyExcludeFromCollectionsReason: draft
---

After our rendevue in Rome, Bekah and I hopped on a train to Florence. After only an hour and a half we were in the city. We carried our suitcases and bags down the cobblestone streets to the center of the old city. Stopping along the river ___ we took some pictures before getting to our rental. It was a tiny room with barely enough room to open a suitcase next to the bed and terrible wifi, but it was right to the Ponte Veccio and we could see the tower from our room. That night we were tired so I ordered some takeout. Compared to the hoards of tourists when we arrived, the streets were tranquil that evening and filled with the sounds of street performers singing opera and playing violins. Florence also has free (though data capped) wifi zones which came in handy.

<aside>
    This post is part of a series describing our 2022 trip to Italy. To read an overview of our trip and why we went, check out this <a href="/blog/2019/11/27/TODO/">introductory post</a>.
</aside>

The next morning, we stopped at Pino's sandwich shop before walking to the Uffizi Museum. I had debated whether to go to the TK Accademia which houses primarily sculptures, like the iconic David statue or the Uffizi, but eneded up choosing the larger, more painting focused Uffizi. Being so iconic of the city, the David statue has been reproduced many places around the city, including right by our hotel and in bronze at the Piazzale Michaelangelo. As the birthplace of the renaissance, I wanted to a range of artwork and the Uffizi walks you through the history pretty well.

While we had learned a lot hiring a tour guide for the Vatican museum, I also was wanting to be able to go at our own pace. There are recorded audio guide devices that can be rented at the museum, but we opted for the [free podcast download from Rick Steves](TK). It really helped to give background and color to the changes that were happening in Florence as styles changed from Catholic symbolism to secular funded realism inspired by the ancient Greeks. The audio tour stopped at key pieces in a pace that felt satisfying to both Bekah and I. Probably the most iconic piece was the Birth of Venus, which was part of the Renaissance move back to Greek iconography. But other works, such as the early works of Leonardo, Michaelangelo, and Donatello were inspiring to see too. In contrast with the arrangement of the paintings in the more sterile galleries, the U-shaped hall of the Uffizi is busy and lined with Roman era sculptures, portraits of Florentines, and beautiful frescos. There were also some key sculptural works, like the [TK sculpture of snakes], which recreated the Roman work we had seen in the Vatican, 3 years earlier.

The Uffizi was originally the city offices (uffizi meaning office in Italian). It is beautiful to see how it has been transformed into a museum with so many historic pieces. I had been concerned by reports of long lines to pick up tickets purchased online, but picking up our ticket only took a moment. The gallery was crowded, but not packed. There was a line for the ____ room which we mostly looked at from the adjacent galleries but we didn't have to wait much otherwise. After walking through the gallery, we stopped at the Terrace cafe. We'd heard it had great views of the Palazzo Vecchio, and I'd agree but they were fairly obstructed by the walls an plants. A better view was from the tower.

After a short rest after buying tickets for late that afternoon, we climbed the ___ steps of the Palazzo Vecchio tower. The tower climbs up above the historic house of the local government and later the economically powerful Medici family. While the Domo may have the best views in the city, I think the tower was a close second. The safety bars were not as obstructive as Giotto's Tower and the views of the Uffizi, the river, and the Duomo a great. I was suprised by the number of modern cranes that pierced the skyline. Florence has kept it's historic skyline but I imagine renovations are a constant with such old buildings.

Down below is the Piazza della Signoria, which was somewhat of a public square. There's a giant fountain of Posidon, a recreation of the original David statue, a public gallery of other sculptures. The square was also a place where riots would break out. The original David statue was damaged when a bench was thrown through a window of the Palazzo Vecchio. During the Renaissance, a monk ____ TK challenged the secular extravogance of the time and led movement to burn many of the works of art in the square. He went as far as rebuking the Pope before he himself was killed an burned in this very square.

That evening we walked across the river, and up the hill to the Piazzale Michelangelo for sunset. We probably should have left 10 minutes ealier as we didn't quite reach the square before the sun fell behind the hill, but it was still worth the view. We were surprised by just how many people were there. It was almost a fair like atmosphere with vendors and a musician playing crowd favorites like the macarena. We hung around until the stars started to come out and you could see the icons of the city sit up.

On the way back we stopped at ____ for sandwiches. Bekah had loved their pistashio spread when she had it in Rome so we found their location in near the Palazzo Vecchio. The place is often packed at lunch, and even with three booths, it was still busy at 8 PM. Neither of us could finish our two huge sandwiches. We also took some of the spread home.

The following day we relaxed a bit more. For lunch we went to the Central Market. Upstairs are an array of food vendors. Below are butchers, fish markets, grocers, and shops. It was a great place for a meal and to pick up some souvenirs and gifts. Outside, is a street market with dozens of tents. I bought an Italian made belt which I'm sure is overpriced but I was in need of a replacement.

That afternoon, I took some time to wak around the city and listen to another Rick Steves tour. After walking down to the river, I followed it upstream to a grassy spot to do some bird watching. It was a very peaceful place to enjoy the city from and the lush green grass was refreshing after so much time surrounded by stone.

Our last night, we made reservations for dinner on a rooftop bar and watched the sun set over the red roofs. Our dinner was delicious. TK

We had a train ticket to leave the next morning but still hadn't climbed the Duomo in florence. The cathedral is one of the top 10 biggest in the world and dominates the skyline. It was originally built in the 1300s?? but the dome wasn't finished till over a hundred years later??. The green and red stone facead wasn't finished until just before Italian unification and Florence's brief time as the country's capital in 18__??. We got tickets for first thing in the morning (TK weave this in better). Part of why we did the Duomo on our last day is because tickets up to the dome require a reservation for a specific time and we wanted to go in the morning before the sun got too strong. The path up to the dome starts on the north side of the church, go up several spiral staircases, along a ledge over the chapel's main hall, and up stairs between the inner and outer dome structures. The views really are the most impressive. It is so high up that even nearby buildings look small. I'm really glad we went. The inside also has some gems too, like the fresco of armageddon on the ceiling, the views from the staircases, and the old tools used to maintain the building. The sound of mass reverberating through the chamber was awe inspiring.

After we climbed the 4__?? steps of the Duomo, we went immediately to Giotto's Tower. We were short on time so thankfully there was no line to go up the tower. It still took us a while to get to the top on our already exhausted legs. The tower provides some up close views of the dome of the Duomo, though the entire area is encased in wire mesh so it can be hard to get a good picture. We made it to the top and then rushed down to grab our suitcases and head to the train station.

## Pisa

Stopped in Pisa to see the tower. I was struggling to find the bag storage place I looked up online, but a kind hotel employee let me keep

## Itinerary

- ~~Tuesday: Arrive~~
  - ~~Check into hotel~~
  - ~~Dinner~~
- ~~Wednesday~~
  - ~~Breakfast: Pino's Sandwiches (9/9:30)~~
  - ~~Morning: Uffizi Museum tour (9:30)~~
  - ~~Terrace cafe~~
  - ~~walk/rest, Palazzo Vecchio~~
  - ~~Before Sunset: Piazzale Michelangelo -  Church of San Miniato al Monte (5pm)~~
  - ~~Dinner: Sandwiches (8pm)~~
  - Dessert: Gelateria Santa Trinita
- Thursday: All day
  - ~~Sleep in~~
  - ~~Lunch: San Lorenzo Central Market  (1pm)~~
  - ~~Stores~~
  - ~~Anthony: Walk around city~~
  - ~~Dinner: Angel Roofbar & Dining (5:30/6)~~
  - Walk around
  - Dessert:
- Friday: Morning
  - ~~Check out Duomo
  - ~~Giotto’s bell tower - views. (8am)~~
  - ~~Check out of hotel by 10:30 AM~~
  - Head to Pisa RV 4023 2nd Class/Ordinary (11:00-11:51)
  - Check bags into storage
  - Walk to tower & take pictures
  - Eat lunch?
  - Leave for Riomaggiore
- Netflix home game?
